Welcome to the first chapter, where we
describe the microservice architecture.
We're first going to have a
look at what microservices
are and what are the guiding
principles behind their creation.
Have a quiz about that to reinforce
and clear up any terminology
and then we're going
to have a look at what
the major patterns implemented in
microservice architectures would be and
a quiz about that as well.
As a last thing in this chapter,
we login and verify OpenShift credentials,
which is a guided exercise.
Microservices are method of dividing
domains of the business logic of
a larger application into
self-contained processes,
which communicate with other
processes, with other,
say, logical units of
functionality through the network.
Each service revolves around
the specific business domain,
such as, for example,
customer information, inventory, control,
and pricing, stock management and so on.
And you can create and
deploy microservices with different
tools and programming languages.
So one of the big
advantages of implementing
microservices architecture
is that each team can
actually use the tool they
think is best for the job.
And yet still, that one building
block of a larger application
will be able to communicate with
the rest of the functionality.
Microservices can be managed
independently deployed using automation.
They run in unique processes.
They communicate using a
lightweight mechanisms such
as HTTP client calls to REST API.
And of course they also expose
REST API endpoints as well.
That modularity means
that microservices are
very suitable for running
inside a cloud environment
and are natural fit for containerized
deployment and orchestration platforms
such as Kubernetes and OpenShift.
Additionally, microservices generally
have a couple of key characteristics,
such as the fact they're modeled around
a single business problem or
a single business domain.
They implement their own business
logic, persistent storage,
and expose external collaboration
systems such as REST API endpoints.
Microservice will have an individually
published contract for consumption,
known also as the API,
and they're capable of
running in isolation.
They should be independent of
other services and loosely coupled
with them whenever that is necessary.
So they should not depend on the
services they consume too tightly.
That all makes them easy
to replace or upgrade and
also scale and deploy
independently of other services.
Some of the reasons for
the implementation and
adoption of microservices
would be faster deployment.
Because there are, first of all,
smaller than traditional
monolithic applications,
which mean they're more easily iterated
over continuous integration cycles.
Smaller changes in the code base
mean less conflict when emerging,
mean faster analysis of source code,
less time required to fix bugs and
new features being added tested.
Testing is a very important part of a
microservice release cycle and released,
of course, much quicker.
Microservices are generally developed
and maintained by small teams.
Small teams typically focus on
one or two microservices at most.
And as commonly said,
it is a 2 pizza team concept, when
2 large pizzas should be enough to
provide lunch for all
the members of the team.
So traditionally, rather than going
for a large team of programmers and
a large or medium team
of business analysts
and then project managers that
oversee individual projects.
So to put it in another terms
instead of having silos of competencies in
the organization of a development
environment of a development unit
inside a company,
we rather build cross-functional
teams according to an
application's requirements,
such as, for example,
a team that consists of
3 developers, 1 DBA,
1 business analyst, perhaps
1 or 2 operators,
and Quality Assurance Engineer.
And together they can sit
behind the same table and
discuss their application from main
different points of view, at the same time
there's much less noise because
of the size of the team.
And yet each of the team
members contributes to
the overall solution from
their own perspective,
of course, making the solution
a lot better. Size of microservices is much,
much lower than the traditional
monolithic application
and that means that the code base
is a lot less complex and there's
a lot lower learning curve,
if you want it that way, for
new members on-boarded on the
team to start being productive.
That also means that microservices,
because of smaller codebase,
can be tested individually.
They can have their own release schedule.
They can be integrated in their
own separate environments,
which all means that they're all easier to
deploy and easier to manage
once running in production.
That also means that
they're easier to scale.
So if we compare traditional monolithic
applications and microservices,
monolithic applications tend to be
many functional units all joined
in the same deployment unit,
such as an Enterprise Archive, EAR file,
as we know from Java.
And even if that application
is perfectly tested,
integrated and then of course
maintained in production,
when it comes to performance, bottlenecks,
it is always 1 or2 of
these components that are the
culprit for the bottleneck.
However, if you want to use
scale-out approach to improve the
throughput of the application,
you will end up with a couple of issues.
First of all, it is the only unit of
scaling is the entire application.
So you have to have x number of times
the entire applications functional units
deployed just to solve an
issue with maybe 1 or 2.
Additionally, you may have singletons
that do not collaborate well,
if there are multiple instances of that
functionality in your infrastructure,
which is a very difficult
problem to solve.
And it's commonly in the
monolithic approach,
resolved by having some sort of
a feature toggle that turns off
functionality in all but one instance
of the monolithic application.
Those kinds of things are very difficult
to not only implement, but also oversee
as the operations cycles
continue into the future.
With microservices we
generally stick, it is
a rule, to one single functional
unit per deployment,
which means that those
units are much simpler.
They are a separate
service in their own right.
And when it comes to scaling,
we simply need to provide
as many instances of
an individual services as
required for its optimal
performance and resiliency.
Singletons, that is, applications
that cannot exist in
more than 1 instance can be
managed much more easily as well.
It is simply a matter
of using, for example,
an orchestrators capacity
to automatically provision
or reprovision a container that is
non-responsive or is not
reporting aliveness
state, that would be favorable.
Also generally because microservices
tend to be small and stateless,
there are a few of them
that actually are stateful,
but again, as we said,
this is more of an
exception than the rule
and if they are stateful then they
typically have a backing store,
which is a database that
belongs only to them.
So the service itself
can be made stateless
with the use of database
that backs it, for example.
So because they're small
and stateless, scale
out process is much quicker and much
easier than it would've been
in a monolithic application.
There are a couple of principles
that crucial to implement,
if you want to ensure the
success of microservices
based deployments such as
reorganizing to DevOps.
Which means essentially that
that cross-functional team
that we were looking at just before, owns
a specific product, a
specific microservice from its
inception to its production.
So they are in charge of the
entire applications lifecycle,
which gives them the autonomy
and the speed they need to
be able to respond to various conditions.
Packaging your service
as a container is also
a good idea because a container is a set
of isolated processes, which provides
all the necessary dependencies
for an application to run.
So by using tools like container engines
and container orchestration systems,
the deployment platforms can be
packaged and deployed as a container,
which means that there is full confidence
that the execution environment,
ultimate execution
environment will be exactly
as engineered during the
development process.
And add on top of that
an elastic infrastructure such as,
for example, OpenShift Container Platform,
you can rely on the
automated provisioning,
management and scaling of
containerized applications.
Automatic detection of
readiness and liveness,
which improves the customer's,
the end user's experience by
ensuring that they never or much,
much, much more rarely
receive unfavorable responses from
applications because the
platform itself can take care
of when an application is
not responding correctly
and automatically replace
it with a new instance.
Automatic scaling, for example,
is a great feature as well because it can
respond to the application's load
based on the metrics of the
application that it monitors
and automatically create new
instances of the application
to satisfy minimum service
level requirements.
Automating deployments is
also a great way to ensure
that microservices can work in a
stable and favorable environment.
So it makes it easier to
spin up new environments,
spin up new instances of the service
without depending on other teams.
So for example, if you have
an automated process and you've already
used it successfully in development,
then it's not a terrific effort to push or
promote that process
into the testing phase,
adjusting it ever so slightly
to have the end-to-end tests,
for example, execute in stable and
clean what's most important environment.
Infrastructure As Code is
one of such approaches
that allows us to use the
descriptive language to code
various requirements for the environment
that we want to provision
the applications in.
It uses tools like Ansible, Puppet or
Jenkins to provide this functionality.
And it also has the
added benefit of having
the information about
our infrastructure
stored generally in a
single source of truth,
as we call it Git repository or some
other version control system that
contains all the declarative
bits that need to be
applied to an environment when
you're trying to provision it.
Of course, continuous integration
being one good practice to follow,
continuous delivery is also a great
practice and both of them combined,
they give us the ability to,
at each point in time have
the capacity to build,
test, and deliver software in a workable
state as the code is being developed.
Key to continuous delivery is to
automate all the steps
involved from first of all,
compiling and building the application
artifacts, to testing them in
a series of unit tests
to test the integration
of that application component
with other external dependencies,
however many there may be and ultimately,
even to a degree,
automate the roll out into production
through continuous release processes.
To build this into
one comprehensive pipeline is a key
effort that needs to be in place
because that gives us the
ability to detect failures in
the code on whatever level they may
appear before any new
development task starts,
before focus turns
elsewhere and before
most obviously, before those errors
are promoted to production.
Microservice architecture,
however many benefits it has can
occasionally become challenging and complex.
The sheer number of application
components that we now have
to manage is quite large.
And of course,
if you look at it just from the
perspective of a single microservice,
it all sounds very nice and very easy.
But then when we start building
a more complex infrastructure,
more complex application environment
with multiple services
depending on each other,
we need to test them together,
which leads to increasingly more complex
integration testing environments.
Or the need to mock
more and more and more external dependencies
in the integration service phase,
integration test phase, and
then use more complex scripts,
more complex scenarios,
in end-to-end testing.
Additionally, maintaining data
consistency might be a bit tricky in
such large distributed systems
because we need to be able to pin
down the exact ownership of
each bit of information.
And then for the purposes of performance,
for the purposes of loose coupling,
we might still choose to have redundancies
in the data in some of the modules,
in some of the components
that will deploy,
which leads to issues
with data consistency.
So maintaining data models,
maintaining domain object model in that
scenario is also a big issue because
while a single application can contain
all the conceivable attributes that
a certain data objects such as,
for example, a customer may have
another application which needs a
bit of redundancy in that area,
may not have the need
to hold the complete set of
attributes of a customer.
It may need to just have
a single attribute such as loyalty
level available at all times
and thinking your way around how
to model these objects and how to
prevent discrepancies in the data
is obviously a challenging task.
In microservice based applications,
it's also
much more difficult to trace the path of
a single user's request through the
infrastructure before it's completed,
before it returns a result.
That also means bottlenecks,
transient failures,
silent
errors in the data are much
more difficult to pinpoint.
But luckily for that,
we have a number of tools that we're also
going to look at and
discuss in this course.
Collecting all the
logging information from
your individual application components
also becomes a challenging task.
And of course, visualizing it is quite
complex in a larger infrastructure.
Finally, securing micro-services
can also be a complicated task
because whereas the users authenticate
with the end-user application,
typically a web front-end,
just like if it was a
monolithic application,
individual services also
need to authenticate
the request delegated to them
by individual components.
So it's not really viable to have each of
the microservices use its
own completely disconnected,
separate authentication process.
They need to be able to
share some information
and verify it with the
degree of confidence.
So designing a successful
microservice architectures,
sometimes even requires you
to forget some of the
bad practices that teens may
have followed for a long time.
And restructure the thinking
around good practices such as the main
driven design and bounded contexts.
Advantages of doing so,
for example, that changes when you're
doing bounded domain model,
changes in the domain model only affect
a very limited number of services
whereas in a monolithic application,
the tendencies to overshare,
overuse and rely on shared
data model far too much.
This also means that the
services that are built around
the bounded domain model are more
autonomous than they would otherwise be.
Of course,
the disadvantages of using the bounded
domain model approach are, that
excellent domain knowledge is
required to define the
context in the first place.
It needs to be a clean cut
between one domain and another domain.
And that is sometimes quite difficult.
And of course, with communication
across the main contexts,
the complexity in maintaining the
consistency of systems increases.
Being able to deploy microservices
independently is one of the
most critical principles.
It means that a microservice must be
a self-contained deployment to be
stateless and maintain state outside
of the application in a database,
in a data grid, in some sort
of independent data store.
And that allows them to scale more
easily and deploy independently.
Such they are good candidates for
lightweight and embedded runtimes
and unlike fully blown
application servers,
microservices do not need that ton of
functionality that our fully
blown application server
comes with. Microservices are
small, compact, single-purpose
components, and it's
typically, they have very,
very low requirements in terms of
the runtime platform functionality
that they exploit.
The most commonly used
runtime environments
for microservices like that are Quarkus,
Eclipse's, Vert.x, Spring Boot,
even JBoss Enterprise
Application Platform,
which is a fully blown application server,
Java EE application server is considered
lightweight for most of purposes
because the majority of its
components startup on demand only.
However, there's even a project
called WildFly Bootable JAR,
which aims to allow us to use
JBoss EAP subsystems
embedded into a Bootable JAR,
much like Spring Boot does.
Microservices that are developed using
these lightweight runtimes can then be
packaged and delivered as containers
that include the runtime
and its dependencies.
Because these runtimes are
extremely small in terms of footprint,
they are also much easier to distribute,
much quicker to spin up,
and of course much much easier to scale.
Microservices can obviously fail,
there is no magic wand that will
make them somehow unbreakable.
So it's best if you plan
for these failures
at the start, so early in the
life cycle of the application
and there are various patterns
some of which we are going to
discuss even in the next section.
But then also revisit
throughout the course,
such as create highly available
deployments whenever possible.
Using circuit breaker patterns to prevent
cascading failures upstream
to other services.
Bulkhead for example, is also an interesting
pattern that prevents overloading
an individual service which has
a known capacity and cannot
easily be scaled out.
And then of course,
there are various approaches such as
fallback responses, cached responses,
and others that allow our
users to still get service,
even though that service may be known to
the user to be incomplete
at a certain point in time.
Of course, we need to employ excessive,
extensive tests to make
sure that these approaches,
that these failures that we can
identify and the approaches in order to
mitigate them actually do
fulfill a certain purpose.
So real-time monitoring is absolutely
necessary to detect those failures.
And of course, using
a self-healing infrastructure
such as Kubernetes and OpenShift
Container Platform also helps
removing non-functional components
and replacing them with new ones.
We'll discuss these later in the course.
So for now, head on to the quiz to review
the section's terminology and principles
and then join us in the next
video where we're going to have
a look at some of these
fault tolerance patterns.